NATIONAL
CYBERSECURITY
STRATEGY
MARCH 2023
                                          March 1, 2023


Digital technologies today touch nearly every aspect of American life. The openness and
connection enabled by access to the Internet are game-changers for communities everywhere, as
we have all experienced throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. That’s why, thanks to the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, my Administration is investing $65 billion to make sure every
American has access to reliable, high-speed Internet. And when we pick up our smart phones to
keep in touch with loved ones, log on to social media to share our ideas with one another, or
connect to the Internet to run a business or take care of any of our basic needs, we need to be
able to trust that the underlying digital ecosystem is safe, reliable, and secure. This National
Cybersecurity Strategy details the comprehensive approach my Administration is taking to better
secure cyberspace and ensure the United States is in the strongest possible position to realize all
the benefits and potential of our digital future.

Cybersecurity is essential to the basic functioning of our economy, the operation of our critical
infrastructure, the strength of our democracy and democratic institutions, the privacy of our data
and communications, and our national defense. From the very beginning of my Administration,
we have moved decisively to strengthen cybersecurity. I appointed senior cybersecurity officials
at the White House and issued an Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity.
Working in close cooperation with the private sector, my Administration has taken steps to
protect the American people from hackers, hold bad actors and cybercriminals accountable, and
defend against the increasingly malicious cyber campaigns targeting our security and privacy.
And we’ve worked with our allies and partners around the world to improve our capacity to
collectively defend against and respond to cyber threats from authoritarian states that go against
our national interests.

This strategy recognizes that robust collaboration, particularly between the public and private
sectors, is essential to securing cyberspace. It also takes on the systemic challenge that too much
of the responsibility for cybersecurity has fallen on individual users and small organizations. By
working in partnership with industry; civil society; and State, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments, we will rebalance the responsibility for cybersecurity to be more effective and
more equitable. We will realign incentives to favor long-term investments in security, resilience,
and promising new technologies. We will collaborate with our allies and partners to strengthen
norms of responsible state behavior, hold countries accountable for irresponsible behavior in
cyberspace, and disrupt the networks of criminals behind dangerous cyberattacks around the
globe. And we will work with the Congress to provide the resources and tools necessary to
ensure effective cybersecurity practices are implemented across our most critical infrastructure.

As I have often said, our world is at an inflection point. That includes our digital world. The
steps we take and choices we make today will determine the direction of our world for decades
to come. This is particularly true as we develop and enforce rules and norms for conduct in
cyberspace. We must ensure the Internet remains open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and
secure—anchored in universal values that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Digital connectivity should be a tool that uplifts and empowers people everywhere, not one used
for repression and coercion. As this strategy details, the United States is prepared to meet this
challenge from a position of strength, leading in lockstep with our closest allies and working
with partners everywhere who share our vision for a brighter digital future.




                               J
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................... 1
PILLAR ONE | DEFEND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE ................................................................. 7
PILLAR TWO | DISRUPT AND DISMANTLE THREAT ACTORS .................................................... 14
PILLAR THREE | SHAPE MARKET FORCES TO DRIVE SECURITY AND RESILIENCE............... 19
PILLAR FOUR | INVEST IN A RESILIENT FUTURE....................................................................... 23
PILLAR FIVE | FORGE INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS TO PURSUE SHARED GOALS ........ 29
IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................................................ 34
INTRODUCTION
The Internet has transformed our world. In a single generation, it has revolutionized the way we
innovate, communicate, and share information on a global scale, catalyzing unprecedented
advancements in human prosperity, equality, and connectivity. Upon this Internet backbone we
have built a flourishing digital ecosystem, combining systems and technologies with our economies,
our societies, and ourselves.

In doing so, the digital ecosystem has come to reflect the values of its architects and its users.
Technologies have promoted democracy, free speech, innovation, and equality. But they also have
been misused to enable transnational repression and digital authoritarianism; steal data and
intellectual property; distribute disinformation; disrupt critical infrastructure; proliferate online
harassment, exploitation, and abuse; enable criminals and foster violent extremism; and threaten
peace and stability. People and technology are increasingly linked, further enabling the very best, as
well as the worst, of humanity.

In this decisive decade, we have grand ambitions for the further values-driven development of our
digital ecosystem. We are building a smart grid, powered by distributed renewable electricity and
balanced with intelligent systems, that promises a bright and resilient future of energy abundance.
We envision a maturing “Internet of Things” (IoT), comprising everything from consumer goods to
digitized industrial controls to constellations of satellites, that will increase efficiency and safety while
providing game-changing insights into our environment and economy. We are laying the
foundations for real-time global collaboration leveraging vast amounts of data and computing power
that will unlock scientific discoveries and other public goods of which we cannot yet conceive.

Achieving this vision of a prosperous, connected future will depend upon the cybersecurity and
resilience of its underlying technologies and systems. We have learned hard lessons and made
significant progress in the collaborative defense of our digital ecosystem. Every day, cyber defenders
foil state-backed attacks and prevent criminal plots around the world. But the underlying structural
dynamics of the digital ecosystem frustrate their efforts. Its components remain prone to
disruption, vulnerable to exploitation, and are often co-opted by malicious actors.

We must make fundamental changes to the underlying dynamics of the digital ecosystem, shifting
the advantage to its defenders and perpetually frustrating the forces that would threaten it. Our goal
is a defensible, resilient digital ecosystem where it is costlier to attack systems than defend them,
where sensitive or private information is secure and protected, and where neither incidents nor
errors cascade into catastrophic, systemic consequences. In creating these conditions, we can and
must seize the opportunity to instill our most cherished values, as embodied by the Declaration for
the Future of the Internet (DFI) and by the Freedom Online Coalition.

This strategy will position the United States and its allies and partners to build that digital ecosystem
together, making it more easily and inherently defensible, resilient, and aligned with our values. By
the end of this decisive decade, we will achieve these outcomes so we can confidently take bold
leaps into a digitally-enabled future that benefits us all.


1                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                    

T HE S TRATEGIC E NVIRONMENT

The United States has made significant progress toward achieving the President’s affirmative vision
for a digitally-enabled future, but emerging trends are creating both new opportunities for further
advancement and new challenges to overcome. Malicious actors threaten our progress toward a
digital ecosystem that is inclusive, equitable, promotes prosperity, and aligns with our democratic
values.

E MERGING T RENDS
The world is entering a new phase of deepening digital dependencies. Driven by emerging
technologies and ever more complex and interdependent systems, dramatic shifts in the coming
decade will unlock new possibilities for human flourishing and prosperity while also multiplying the
systemic risks posed by insecure systems.

Software and systems are growing more complex, providing value to companies and consumers but
also increasing our collective insecurity. Too often, we are layering new functionality and
technology onto already intricate and brittle systems at the expense of security and resilience. The
widespread introduction of artificial intelligence systems—which can act in ways unexpected to even
their own creators—is heightening the complexity and risk associated with many of our most
important technological systems.

The Internet continues to connect individuals, businesses, communities, and countries on shared
platforms that enable scaled business solutions and international exchange. But this accelerating
global interconnectivity also introduces risks. An attack on one organization, sector, or state can
rapidly spill over to other sectors and regions, as happened during Russia’s 2017 “NotPetya”
cyberattack on Ukraine, which spread across Europe, Asia, and the Americas, causing billions of
dollars in damage. The potential cost of attacks like this will only grow as interdependencies
increase.

Digital technologies increasingly touch the most sensitive aspects of our lives, providing
convenience, but also creating new, often unforeseen risks. The COVID-19 pandemic has pushed
us to live ever more deeply in a digital world. As our lives become intertwined with video and audio
streaming, wearable devices, and biometric technologies, the quantity and intimacy of personal data
collection is growing exponentially. Theft of that data is also growing rapidly, and opening up novel
vectors for malicious actors to surveil, manipulate, and blackmail individuals.

Next-generation interconnectivity is collapsing the boundary between the digital and physical
worlds, and exposing some of our most essential systems to disruption. Our factories, power grids,
and water treatment facilities, among other essential infrastructure, are increasingly shedding old
analog control systems and rapidly bringing online digital operational technology (OT). Advanced
wireless technologies, IoT, and space-based assets—including those enabling positioning, navigation,
and timing for civilian and military uses, environmental and weather monitoring, and everyday
Internet-based activities from banking to telemedicine—will accelerate this trend, moving many of


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                 2
                                     

our essential systems online and making cyberattacks inherently more destructive and impactful to
our daily lives.

M ALI CIOUS A CTO RS
Malicious cyber activity has evolved from nuisance defacement, to espionage and intellectual
property theft, to damaging attacks against critical infrastructure, to ransomware attacks and cyber-
enabled influence campaigns designed to undermine public trust in the foundation of our
democracy. Once available only to a small number of well-resourced countries, offensive hacking
tools and services, including foreign commercial spyware, are now widely accessible. These tools
and services empower countries that previously lacked the ability to harm U.S. interests in
cyberspace and enable a growing threat from organized criminal syndicates.

The governments of China, Russia, Iran, North Korea, and other autocratic states with revisionist
intent are aggressively using advanced cyber capabilities to pursue objectives that run counter to our
interests and broadly accepted international norms. Their reckless disregard for the rule of law and
human rights in cyberspace is threatening U.S. national security and economic prosperity.

The People’s Republic of China (PRC) now presents the broadest, most active, and most persistent
threat to both government and private sector networks and is the only country with both the intent
to reshape the international order and, increasingly, the economic, diplomatic, military, and
technological power to do so. Over the last ten years, it has expanded cyber operations beyond
intellectual property theft to become our most advanced strategic competitor with the capacity to
threaten U.S. interests and dominate emerging technologies critical to global development. Having
successfully harnessed the Internet as the backbone of its surveillance state and influence
capabilities, the PRC is exporting its vision of digital authoritarianism, striving to shape the global
Internet in its image and imperiling human rights beyond its borders.

For more than two decades, the Russian government has used its cyber capabilities to destabilize its
neighbors and interfere in the domestic politics of democracies around the world. Russia remains a
persistent cyber threat as it refines its cyber espionage, attack, influence, and disinformation
capabilities to coerce sovereign countries, harbor transnational criminal actors, weaken U.S. alliances
and partnerships, and subvert the rules-based international system. Like its 2017 “NotPetya” attack,
Russia’s cyberattacks in support of its 2022 brutal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine have
resulted in irresponsible spillover impacts onto civilian critical infrastructure in other European
countries.

The governments of Iran and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) are similarly
growing in their sophistication and willingness to conduct malicious activity in cyberspace. Iran has
used cyber capabilities to threaten U.S. allies in the Middle East and elsewhere, while the DPRK
conducts cyber activities to generate revenue through criminal enterprises, such as through the theft
of cryptocurrency, ransomware, and the deployment of surreptitious information technology (IT)
workers for the purposes of fueling its nuclear ambitions. Further maturation of these capabilities
could have significant impacts on U.S., allied, and partner interests.




3                      NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

The cyber operations of criminal syndicates now represent a threat to the national security, public
safety, and economic prosperity of the United States and its allies and partners. Ransomware
incidents have disrupted critical services and businesses across the country and around the world,
from energy pipelines and food companies, to schools and hospitals. Total economic losses from
ransomware attacks continue to climb, reaching billions of U.S. dollars annually. Criminal syndicates
often operate out of states that do not cooperate with U.S. law enforcement and frequently
encourage, harbor, or tolerate such activities. These and other malicious cyber activities continue to
threaten Americans across society, including disproportionately affecting those without the
resources necessary to protect themselves, recover, or seek recourse.


O UR A PPROACH : A P ATH TO R ESILIENCE IN C YBERSPACE

Deep and enduring collaboration between stakeholders across our digital ecosystem will be the
foundation upon which we make it more inherently defensible, resilient, and aligned with U.S.
values. This strategy seeks to build and enhance collaboration around five pillars: (1) Defend Critical
Infrastructure, (2) Disrupt and Dismantle Threat Actors, (3) Shape Market Forces to Drive Security
and Resilience, (4) Invest in a Resilient Future, and (5) Forge International Partnerships to Pursue
Shared Goals. Each effort requires unprecedented levels of collaboration across its respective
stakeholder communities, including the public sector, private industry, civil society, and international
allies and partners. The pillars organizing this strategy articulate a vision of shared purpose and
priorities for these communities, highlight challenges they face in achieving this vision, and identify
strategic objectives around which to organize their efforts.

To realize the vision these pillars lay out, we will make two fundamental shifts in how the United
States allocates roles, responsibilities, and resources in cyberspace. In realizing these shifts, we
aspire not just to improve our defenses, but to change those underlying dynamics that currently
contravene our interests.

R EBALANCE        TH E   R ESPONSI BILI TY        TO   D EFEND C YBERSPACE
The most capable and best-positioned actors in cyberspace must be better stewards of the digital
ecosystem. Today, end users bear too great a burden for mitigating cyber risks. Individuals, small
businesses, state and local governments, and infrastructure operators have limited resources and
competing priorities, yet these actors’ choices can have a significant impact on our national
cybersecurity. A single person’s momentary lapse in judgment, use of an outdated password, or
errant click on a suspicious link should not have national security consequences. Our collective
cyber resilience cannot rely on the constant vigilance of our smallest organizations and individual
citizens.

Instead, across both the public and private sectors, we must ask more of the most capable and best-
positioned actors to make our digital ecosystem secure and resilient. In a free and interconnected
society, protecting data and assuring the reliability of critical systems must be the responsibility of
the owners and operators of the systems that hold our data and make our society function, as well as



                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                 4
                                     

of the technology providers that build and service these systems. Government’s role is to protect its
own systems; to ensure private entities, particularly critical infrastructure, are protecting their
systems; and to carry out core governmental functions such as engaging in diplomacy, collecting
intelligence, imposing economic costs, enforcing the law, and, conducting disruptive actions to
counter cyber threats. Together, industry and government must drive effective and equitable
collaboration to correct market failures, minimize the harms from cyber incidents to society’s most
vulnerable, and defend our shared digital ecosystem.

R EALIGN I NCENTI VES           TO   F AVOR L O NG -T ERM I NVESTMENTS
Our economy and society must incentivize decision-making to make cyberspace more resilient and
defensible over the long term. Balancing short-term imperatives against a long-term vision will be
no easy task. We must defend the systems we have now, while investing in and building toward a
future digital ecosystem that is more inherently defensible and resilient.

This strategy outlines how the Federal Government will use all tools available to reshape incentives
and achieve unity of effort in a collaborative, equitable, and mutually beneficial manner. We must
ensure that market forces and public programs alike reward security and resilience, build a robust
and diverse cyber workforce, embrace security and resilience by design, strategically coordinate
research and development investments in cybersecurity, and promote the collaborative stewardship
of our digital ecosystem. To achieve these goals, the Federal Government will focus on points of
leverage, where minimally invasive actions will produce the greatest gains in defensibility and
systemic resilience.

The Federal Government is making generational investments in renewing our infrastructure,
digitizing and decarbonizing our energy systems, securing our semiconductor supply chains,
modernizing our cryptographic technologies, and rejuvenating our foreign and domestic policy
priorities. The United States has an opportunity to rebalance the incentives necessary to lay a
stronger, more resilient foundation on which to build the future of our digital ecosystem.


B UILDING ON E XISTING P OLICY

This strategy, while laying out a new approach to our cybersecurity, builds on significant
achievements already shaping our strategic environment and digital ecosystem. In its first days, the
Biden-Harris Administration assumed responsibility for managing the fallout from Russia’s
compromise of the SolarWinds Orion platform and the PRC’s compromise of servers running
Microsoft Exchange. The President elevated White House leadership on cybersecurity, appointing
experienced, senior leaders in new positions at the National Security Council (NSC) and the Office
of National Cyber Director (ONCD), and moved quickly to fold lessons learned from these and
other incidents into executive actions.

These forward-leaning efforts have laid the foundation upon which this strategy is built. It was
developed alongside the National Security Strategy and National Defense Strategy by a broad



5                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

interagency team and through a months-long consultation process with the private sector and civil
society. It is informed by and implements the values of the DFI, the Freedom Online Coalition, and
other long-standing efforts to realize a democratic vision for our digital ecosystem. It carries
forward the foundational direction of Executive Order (EO) 14028, “Improving the Nation’s
Cybersecurity,” National Security Memorandum (NSM) 5, “Improving Cybersecurity for Critical
Infrastructure Control Systems,” NSM 8, “Improving the Cybersecurity of National Security,
Department of Defense (DoD), and Intelligence Community Systems,” and other executive actions.
It integrates cybersecurity into the once-in-a-generation new investments made by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce
Semiconductors (CHIPS) and Science Act, and EO 14017, “America’s Supply Chains.”

This strategy also builds on the work of prior administrations. It replaces the 2018 National Cyber
Strategy but continues momentum on many of its priorities, including the collaborative defense of
the digital ecosystem. The Administration remains committed to enhancing the security and
resilience of U.S. space systems, including by implementing Space Policy Directive 5, “Cybersecurity
Principles for Space Systems.” The Administration also continues to implement critical efforts to
secure next-generation technologies, including through the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative
and the National Strategy to Secure 5G, among other existing policies and initiatives.

This strategy’s goals for securing Federal systems and collaborating with the private sector build on
EO 13800, “Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure,” EO
13691, “Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing,” and EO 13636, “Improving
Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,” and fit within the frameworks established by Presidential
Policy Directive 21, “Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience,” and Presidential Policy
Directive 41, “United States Cyber Incident Coordination.” It carries forward and evolves many of
the strategic efforts originally initiated by the 2008 Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative.




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                6
PILLAR ONE | DEFEND CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
Defending the systems and assets that constitute our critical infrastructure is vital to our national
security, public safety, and economic prosperity. The American people must have confidence in the
availability and resilience of this infrastructure and the essential services it provides. We aim to
operationalize an enduring and effective model of collaborative defense that equitably distributes
risk and responsibility, and delivers a foundational level of security and resilience for our digital
ecosystem.

Collaboration to address advanced threats will only be effective if owners and operators of critical
infrastructure have cybersecurity protections in place to make it harder for adversaries to disrupt
them. The Administration has established new cybersecurity requirements in certain critical sectors.
In other sectors, new authorities will be required to set regulations that can drive better cybersecurity
practices at scale. This Administration has conducted sector-specific engagement with industry to
construct consistent, predictable regulatory frameworks for cybersecurity that focus on achieving
security outcomes and enabling continuity of operations and functions, while promoting
collaboration and innovation.

Private sector entities have made significant commitments to engage in collaborative defense efforts.
The “Shields Up” campaign preceding Russia’s 2022 brutal and unprovoked war on Ukraine, to
proactively increase preparedness and promote effective measures to combat malicious activity, is an
example of public-private collaboration that must be scaled and repeated.

We must build new and innovative capabilities that allow owners and operators of critical
infrastructure, Federal agencies, product vendors and service providers, and other stakeholders to
effectively collaborate with each other at speed and scale. Federal agencies that support critical
infrastructure providers must enhance their own capabilities and their ability to collaborate with
other Federal entities. When incidents occur, Federal response efforts must be coordinated and
tightly integrated with private sector and State, local, Tribal, and territorial (SLTT) partners.

Finally, the Federal Government can better support the defense of critical infrastructure by making
its own systems more defensible and resilient. This Administration is committed to improving
Federal cybersecurity through long-term efforts to implement a zero trust architecture strategy and
modernize IT and OT infrastructure. In doing so, Federal cybersecurity can be a model for critical
infrastructure across the United States for how to successfully build and operate secure and resilient
systems.




7                      NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 1.1: E STABLISH C YBERSECURITY
R EQUIREMENTS TO S UPPORT N ATIONAL S ECURITY AND
P UBLIC S AFETY

The American people must have confidence in the critical services underpinning their lives and the
nation’s economy. While voluntary approaches to critical infrastructure cybersecurity have produced
meaningful improvements, the lack of mandatory requirements has resulted in inadequate and
inconsistent outcomes. Today’s marketplace insufficiently rewards—and often disadvantages—the
owners and operators of critical infrastructure who invest in proactive measures to prevent or
mitigate the effects of cyber incidents.

Regulation can level the playing field, enabling healthy competition without sacrificing cybersecurity
or operational resilience. Our strategic environment requires modern and nimble regulatory
frameworks for cybersecurity tailored for each sector’s risk profile, harmonized to reduce
duplication, complementary to public-private collaboration, and cognizant of the cost of
implementation. New and updated cybersecurity regulations must be calibrated to meet the needs
of national security and public safety, in addition to the security and safety of individuals, regulated
entities, and their employees, customers, operations, and data.

The Administration has made progress in this area, establishing cybersecurity requirements in key
sectors such as oil and natural gas pipelines, aviation, and rail, led by the Transportation Security
Administration and water systems, led by the Environmental Protection Agency. A collaborative
process between industry and regulators will produce regulatory requirements that are operationally
and commercially viable and will ensure the safe and resilient operation of critical infrastructure.
The most effective and efficient regulatory frameworks will be those put in place well before a crisis,
rather than through the imposition of emergency regulations after a crisis occurs.

E STABLI SH C YBERSECURI TY R EGULATIONS                         TO   S ECURE C RITI CAL
I NFRASTRUCTURE
The Federal Government will use existing authorities to set necessary cybersecurity requirements in
critical sectors. Where Federal departments and agencies have gaps in statutory authorities to
implement minimum cybersecurity requirements or mitigate related market failures, the
Administration will work with Congress to close them. Where states or independent regulators have
authorities that can be used to set cybersecurity requirements, the Administration will encourage
them to use those authorities in a deliberate and coordinated manner.

Regulations should be performance-based, leverage existing cybersecurity frameworks, voluntary
consensus standards, and guidance—including the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(CISA)’s Cybersecurity Performance Goals and the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity— and be agile enough to
adapt as adversaries increase their capabilities and change their tactics. In setting cybersecurity
regulations for critical infrastructure, regulators are encouraged to drive the adoption of secure-by-


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                 8
                                      

design principles, prioritize the availability of essential services, and ensure that systems are designed
to fail safely and recover quickly. Regulations will define minimum expected cybersecurity practices
or outcomes, but the Administration encourages and will support further efforts by entities to
exceed these requirements.

Further, these and other critical sectors rely upon the cybersecurity and resilience of their third-party
service providers. Cloud-based services enable better and more economical cybersecurity practices
at scale, but they are also essential to operational resilience across many critical infrastructure sectors.
The Administration will identify gaps in authorities to drive better cybersecurity practices in the
cloud computing industry and for other essential third-party services, and work with industry,
Congress, and regulators to close them.

H ARMONI ZE        AND    S TREAMLINE N EW             AND    E XISTING R EGULATION
Effective regulations minimize the cost and burden of compliance, enabling organizations to invest
resources in building resilience and defending their systems and assets. By leveraging existing
international standards in a manner consistent with current policy and law, regulatory agencies can
minimize the burden of unique requirements and reduce the need for regulatory harmonization.

Where Federal regulations are in conflict, duplicative, or overly burdensome, regulators must work
together to minimize these harms. When necessary, the United States will pursue cross-border
regulatory harmonization to prevent cybersecurity requirements from impeding digital trade flows.
Where feasible, regulators should work to harmonize not only regulations and rules, but also
assessments and audits of regulated entities. ONCD, in coordination with the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), will lead the Administration’s efforts on cybersecurity regulatory
harmonization. The Cyber Incident Reporting Council will coordinate, deconflict, and harmonize
Federal incident reporting requirements.

E NABLE R EGULATED E NTI TIES                  TO   A FFORD S ECURITY
Different critical infrastructure sectors have varying capacities to absorb the costs of cybersecurity,
ranging from low-margin sectors that cannot easily increase investment without intervention, to
those where the marginal costs of improving cybersecurity can be absorbed. In some sectors,
regulation may be necessary to create a level playing field so that companies are not trapped in a
competition to underspend their peers on cybersecurity. In other sectors, regulators are encouraged
to ensure that necessary investments in cybersecurity are incentivized through the rate-making
process, tax structures, or other mechanisms. In setting new cybersecurity requirements, regulators
are encouraged to consult with regulated entities to understand how those requirements will be
resourced. In seeking new regulatory authority, the Administration will work with Congress to
develop regulatory frameworks that take into account the resources necessary to implement them.




9                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 1.2: S CALE P UBLIC -P RIVATE
C OLLABORATION

Defending critical infrastructure against adversarial activity and other threats requires a model of
cyber defense that emulates the distributed structure of the Internet. We will realize this distributed,
networked model by developing and strengthening collaboration between defenders through
structured roles and responsibilities and increased connectivity enabled by the automated exchange
of data, information, and knowledge. Combining organizational collaboration and technology-
enabled connectivity will create a trust-based “network of networks” that builds situational
awareness and drives collective and synchronized action among the cyber defenders that protect our
critical infrastructure.

CISA is the national coordinator for critical infrastructure security and resilience. In this role, CISA
coordinates with Sector Risk Management Agencies (SRMAs) to enable the Federal Government to
scale its coordination with critical infrastructure owners and operators across the United States.
SRMAs have day-to-day responsibility and sector-specific expertise to improve security and
resilience within their sectors. In turn, SRMAs support individual owners and operators in their
respective sectors who are responsible for protecting the systems and assets they operate.
Information sharing and analysis organizations (ISAOs), sector-focused information sharing and
analysis centers (ISACs), and similar organizations facilitate cyber defense operations across vast and
complex sectors.

The Federal Government will continue to enhance coordination between CISA and other SRMAs,
invest in the development of SRMA capabilities, and otherwise enable SRMAs to proactively
respond to the needs of critical infrastructure owners and operators in their sectors. The Federal
Government will collaborate with industry to define sector-by-sector needs and assess gaps in
current SRMA capabilities. Investment by the Federal Government in building out the capabilities
of SRMAs will enable security and resilience improvements across critical infrastructure. SRMAs
will coordinate with CISA to improve their ability to be proactive and responsive to the needs of
their sectors. SRMAs must also continue to support the maturation of third-party collaboration
mechanisms. Building on decades of experience collaborating with ISACs and ISAOs, the Federal
Government will work with these and other groups to develop a shared vision of how this model
should evolve.

Accelerating operational collaboration will require the use of technology solutions to share
information and coordinate defensive efforts. We must complement human-to-human
collaboration efforts with machine-to-machine data sharing and security orchestration. Realizing
this model will enable real-time, actionable, and multi-directional sharing to drive threat response at
machine speed. In partnership with the private sector, CISA and SRMAs will explore technical and
organizational mechanisms to enhance and evolve machine-to-machine sharing of data. The Federal
Government will also deepen operational and strategic collaboration with software, hardware, and
managed service providers with the capability to reshape the cyber landscape in favor of greater
security and resilience.


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                               10
                                    

S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 1.3: I NTEGRATE F EDERAL
C YBERSECURITY C ENTERS

The Federal Government must coordinate the authorities and capabilities of the departments and
agencies that are collectively responsible for supporting the defense of critical infrastructure.
Federal Cybersecurity Centers serve as collaborative nodes that fuse together whole-of-government
capabilities across the homeland defense, law enforcement, intelligence, diplomatic, economic, and
military missions. Once fully integrated, they will drive intragovernmental coordination and enable
the Federal Government to effectively and decisively support non-Federal partners.

The Administration has made progress toward this goal, establishing the Joint Cyber Defense
Collaborative (JCDC) at CISA to integrate cyber defense planning and operations across the Federal
Government and with the private sector and international partners; strengthening the capabilities of
the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF) to coordinate law enforcement and
other disruption actions; and revitalizing the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center’s (CTIIC)
role in coordinating intelligence collection, analysis, and partnerships.

Operational collaboration models at SRMAs, such as the Department of Energy (DOE)’s Energy
Threat Analysis Center (ETAC) pilot, DoD’s Defense Industrial Base Collaborative Information
Sharing Environment (DCISE), and the National Security Agency (NSA)’s Cybersecurity
Collaboration Center provide opportunities to enable timely, actionable, and relevant information
sharing directly with private sector partners in their respective sectors.

Further efforts will be required to strengthen and integrate the Federal Government’s operational
capabilities and improve integration of the Federal Cybersecurity Centers. ONCD will lead the
Administration’s efforts to enhance the integration of centers such as these, identify gaps in
capabilities, and develop an implementation plan to enable collaboration at speed and scale.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 1.4: U PDATE F EDERAL I NCIDENT
R ESPONSE P LANS AND P ROCESSES

The private sector is capable of mitigating most cyber incidents without direct Federal assistance.
When Federal assistance is required, the Federal Government must present a unified, coordinated,
whole-of-government response. Organizations targeted by cyber threats must know which
government agencies to contact for what purposes. The Federal Government must provide clear
guidance on how private sector partners can reach Federal agencies for support during cyber
incidents and what forms of support the Federal Government may provide.

Consistent with Presidential Policy Directive 41, “United States Cyber Incident Coordination,”—
which defines lead roles for the Department of Justice (DOJ), Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence in threat, asset, and intelligence


11                    NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

response efforts, respectively—CISA will lead a process to update the subordinate National Cyber
Incident Response Plan (NCIRP) to strengthen processes, procedures, and systems to more fully
realize the policy that “a call to one is a call to all.” When any Federal agency receives a request for
assistance, the agency will know what support the wider Federal Government can provide, how to
contact the right Federal agencies that can provide such support, and have access to effective
information sharing mechanisms. Because most Federal responses take place through field offices,
the NCIRP will bolster coordination at the local level, taking lessons from the successes of the Joint
Terrorism Task Forces.

When incidents do occur, the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022
(CIRCIA) will enhance our awareness and ability to respond effectively. CIRCIA will require
covered entities in critical infrastructure sectors to report covered cyber incidents to CISA within
hours. These timely notifications and CISA’s rapid sharing of relevant information with DOJ and
other incident response stakeholders will strengthen our collective defense, improve efforts to
identify the root causes of incidents, and inform decision-making within government on how to
respond. CISA will consult with SRMAs, DOJ, and other Federal agencies during the CIRCIA rule-
making and implementation process to integrate incident reporting systems and ensure real-time
sharing and actioning of all relevant incident information.

Following major incidents, we will ensure that the cybersecurity community benefits from lessons
learned through the Cyber Safety Review Board (CSRB). Established by EO 14028, “Improving the
Nation’s Cybersecurity,” the CSRB brings together public and private sector cybersecurity leaders to
review major cyber incidents, conduct authoritative fact-finding, generate insights that will inform
and guide industry remediations, and provide recommendations for improving the nation’s
cybersecurity posture going forward. The Administration will work with Congress to pass legislation
to codify the CSRB within DHS and provide it the authorities it needs to carry out comprehensive
reviews of significant incidents.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 1.5: M ODERNIZE F EDERAL
D EFENSES

The Federal Government requires secure and resilient information, communications, and
operational technology and services to perform its duties. In its first months, this Administration set
a new strategic direction for Federal cybersecurity, publishing EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s
Cybersecurity,” which led to the release of NSM 8, “Improving the Cybersecurity of National
Security, the Defense Department, and Intelligence Community Systems,” and the OMB Federal
zero trust architecture strategy.

Building on this momentum, the Administration will drive long-term efforts to defend the Federal
enterprise and modernize Federal systems in accordance with zero trust principles that acknowledge
threats must be countered both inside and outside traditional network boundaries. By making its




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                12
                                    

own networks more defensible and resilient, the Federal Government will be a model for private
sector emulation.

C OLLECTIVELY D EFEND F EDERAL C IVILIAN A GENCI ES
Federal civilian executive branch (FCEB) agencies are responsible for managing and securing their
own IT and OT systems. With different agency structures, missions, capabilities, and resourcing,
FCEB cybersecurity outcomes vary. We must continue to build a model for Federal cybersecurity
that balances the individual authorities and capabilities of agencies with the security benefits
achieved through a collective approach to defense.

We will continue to build Federal cohesion through focused action across the Federal Government.
OMB, in coordination with CISA, will develop a plan of action to secure FCEB systems through
collective operational defense, expanded availability of centralized shared services, and software
supply chain risk mitigation. These efforts will build on prior programs and prioritize actions that
advance a whole-of-government approach to defending FCEB information systems. The software
supply chain risk mitigation objective, developed in coordination with NIST, will build on the
implementation of EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity,” including the Software Bills
of Material (SBOM) efforts, NIST’s Secure Software Development Framework, and related efforts
to improve open-source software security.

M ODERNI ZE F EDERAL S YSTEMS
The Federal Government must replace or update IT and OT systems that are not defensible against
sophisticated cyber threats. The OMB zero trust architecture strategy directs FCEB agencies to
implement multi-factor authentication, encrypt their data, gain visibility into their entire attack
surface, manage authorization and access, and adopt cloud security tools. These and other
cybersecurity goals cannot be achieved unless Federal IT and OT systems are modernized so they
are capable of leveraging critical security technologies. OMB will lead development of a multi-year
lifecycle plan to accelerate FCEB technology modernization, prioritizing Federal efforts on
eliminating legacy systems which are costly to maintain and difficult to defend. The plan will
identify milestones to remove all legacy systems incapable of implementing our zero trust
architecture strategy within a decade, or otherwise mitigate risks to those that cannot be replaced in
that timeframe. Replacing legacy systems with more secure technology, including through
accelerating migration to cloud-based services, will elevate the cybersecurity posture across the
Federal Government and, in turn, improve the security and resilience of the digital services it
provides to the American people.

D EFEND N ATIONAL S ECURI TY S YSTEMS
National security systems (NSS) store and process some of the Federal Government’s most sensitive
data and must be secured against a wide range of cyber and physical threats, including insider
threats, cyber criminals, and the most sophisticated nation-state adversaries. The Director of the
NSA, as the National Manager for NSS, will coordinate with OMB to develop a plan for NSS at
FCEB agencies that ensures implementation of the enhanced cybersecurity requirements of NSM-8.




13                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
PILLAR TWO | DISRUPT AND
DISMANTLE THREAT ACTORS
The United States will use all instruments of national power to disrupt and dismantle threat actors
whose actions threaten our interests. These efforts may integrate diplomatic, information, military
(both kinetic and cyber), financial, intelligence, and law enforcement capabilities. Our goal is to
make malicious actors incapable of mounting sustained cyber-enabled campaigns that would
threaten the national security or public safety of the United States.

Coordinated efforts by Federal and non-Federal entities have proven effective in frustrating the
malicious cyber activity of foreign government, criminal, and other threat actors. The Federal
Government has increased its capacity to respond to cyber incidents; arrested and successfully
prosecuted transnational cybercriminals and state-sponsored actors; imposed sanctions on malicious
cyber actors, including bans on travel and denying access to money service providers; and deprived
threat actors of access to digital infrastructure and victim networks. The Federal Government has
also targeted financial infrastructure used for illicit activity; established new diplomatic initiatives
attributing disruptive, destructive, or otherwise destabilizing cyber activities to hold actors
accountable for their malicious behavior; and recovered billions of dollars’ worth of ill-gotten assets.

We will build upon these successes to enable more sustained and effective disruption of adversaries.
Our efforts will require greater collaboration by public and private sector partners to improve
intelligence sharing, execute disruption campaigns at scale, deny adversaries use of U.S.-based
infrastructure, and thwart global ransomware campaigns.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 2.1: I NTEGRATE F EDERAL
D ISRUPTION A CTIVITIES

Disruption campaigns must become so sustained and targeted that criminal cyber activity is rendered
unprofitable and foreign government actors engaging in malicious cyber activity no longer see it as
an effective means of achieving their goals. DOJ and other Federal law enforcement agencies have
pioneered the integrated deployment of domestic legal authorities with private industry and
international allies and partners to disrupt online criminal infrastructure and resources, from taking
down notorious botnets to seizing cryptocurrency gleaned from ransomware and fraud campaigns.
Information generated from these investigations enables other efforts, such as victim notification,
issuance of cybersecurity advisories, private-sector actions, sanctions designations, diplomatic
actions, and intelligence operations.

The Department of Defense’s strategic approach of defending forward has helped generate insights
on threat actors, identify and expose malware, and disrupt malicious activity before it could affect its
intended targets. Informed by lessons learned and the rapidly-evolving threat environment, DoD
will develop an updated departmental cyber strategy aligned with the National Security Strategy,


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                               14
                                     

National Defense Strategy, and this National Cybersecurity Strategy. DoD’s new strategy will clarify
how U.S. Cyber Command and other DoD components will integrate cyberspace operations into
their efforts to defend against state and non-state actors capable of posing strategic-level threats to
U.S. interests, while continuing to strengthen their integration and coordination of operations with
civilian, law enforcement, and intelligence partners to disrupt malicious activity at scale.

To increase the volume and speed of these integrated disruption campaigns, the Federal
Government must further develop technological and organizational platforms that enable
continuous, coordinated operations. The NCIJTF, as a multi-agency focal point for coordinating
whole-of-government disruption campaigns, will expand its capacity to coordinate takedown and
disruption campaigns with greater speed, scale, and frequency. Similarly, DoD and the Intelligence
Community are committed to bringing to bear their full range of complementary authorities to
disruption campaigns.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 2.2: E NHANCE P UBLIC -P RIVATE
O PERATIONAL C OLLABORATION TO D ISRUPT
A DVERSARIES

The private sector has growing visibility into adversary activity. This body of insight is often
broader and more detailed than that of the Federal Government, due in part to the sheer scale of the
private sector and its threat hunting operations, but also due to the rapid pace of innovation in
tooling and capabilities. Effective disruption of malicious cyber activity requires more routine
collaboration between the private sector entities that have unique insights and capabilities and the
Federal agencies that have the means and authorities to act. The 2021 takedown of the Emotet
botnet showed the potential of this collaborative approach, with Federal agencies, international allies
and partners, and private industry cooperating to disrupt the botnet’s operations. Given the interest
of the cybersecurity community and digital infrastructure owners and operators in continuing this
approach, we must sustain and expand upon this model so that collaborative disruption operations
can be carried out on a continuous basis.

Private sector partners are encouraged to come together and organize their efforts through one or
more nonprofit organizations that can serve as hubs for operational collaboration with the Federal
Government, such as the National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance (NCFTA). Threat-
specific collaboration should take the form of nimble, temporary cells, comprised of a small number
of trusted operators, hosted and supported by a relevant hub. Using virtual collaboration platforms,
members of the cell would share information bidirectionally and work rapidly to disrupt adversaries.
The Federal Government will rapidly overcome barriers to supporting and leveraging this
collaboration model, such as security requirements and records management policy.




15                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 2.3: I NCREASE THE S PEED AND
S CALE OF I NTELLIGENCE S HARING AND V ICTIM
N OTIFICATION

The timely sharing of threat intelligence between Federal and non-Federal partners enhances
collaborative efforts to disrupt and dismantle adversaries. Open-source cybersecurity intelligence
and private sector intelligence providers have greatly increased collective awareness of cyber threats,
but national intelligence that only the government can collect remains invaluable. For instance, the
NSA Cybersecurity Collaboration Center’s national intelligence-driven engagement with industry has
been highly effective at disrupting adversary activity targeting the Defense Industrial Base. Similarly,
CISA enables persistent, multi-directional threat information sharing with the private sector through
the JCDC and, in coordination with the FBI, uses that information to accelerate victim notification
and to reduce the impact of identified intrusions.

The Federal Government will increase the speed and scale of cyber threat intelligence sharing to
proactively warn cyber defenders and notify victims when the government has information that an
organization is being actively targeted or may already be compromised. SRMAs, in coordination
with CISA, law enforcement agencies, and the CTIIC, will identify intelligence needs and priorities
within their sector and develop processes to share warnings, technical indicators, threat context, and
other relevant information with both government and non-government partners. These processes
must provide mechanisms for the private sector to provide timely feedback and their own threat
intelligence to the Federal Government to improve targeting of cyber threats for disruption and
further intelligence collection. The Federal Government will also review declassification policies and
processes to determine the conditions under which extending additional classified access and
expanding clearances is necessary to provide actionable intelligence to owners and operators of
critical infrastructure.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 2.4: P REVENT A BUSE OF
U.S.-B ASED I NFRASTRUCTURE

Malicious cyber actors exploit U.S.-based cloud infrastructure, domain registrars, hosting and email
providers, and other digital services to carry out criminal activity, malign influence operations, and
espionage against individual victims, businesses, governments, and other organizations in the United
States and abroad. Often, these services are leased through foreign resellers who have multiple
degrees of separation from their U.S.-based providers, hindering the ability of those providers to
address abuse complaints or respond to legal process from U.S. authorities. The Federal
Government will work with cloud and other internet infrastructure providers to quickly identify
malicious use of U.S.-based infrastructure, share reports of malicious use with the government, make
it easier for victims to report abuse of these systems, and make it more difficult for malicious actors
to gain access to these resources in the first place.


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                               16
                                    

All service providers must make reasonable attempts to secure the use of their infrastructure against
abuse or other criminal behavior. The Administration will prioritize adoption and enforcement of a
risk-based approach to cybersecurity across Infrastructure-as-a-Service providers that addresses
known methods and indicators of malicious activity including through implementation of EO
13984, “Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency with Respect to Significant
Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities.” Implementation of this order will make it more difficult for
adversaries to abuse U.S.-based infrastructure while safeguarding individual privacy.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 2.5: C OUNTER C YBERCRIME ,
D EFEAT R ANSOMWARE

Ransomware is a threat to national security, public safety, and economic prosperity. Ransomware
operators have disrupted hospitals, schools, pipeline operations, government services, and other
critical infrastructure and essential services. Operating from safe havens like Russia, Iran, and North
Korea, ransomware actors exploit poor cybersecurity practices to take control of victim networks
and rely on cryptocurrencies to receive extortion payments and launder their proceeds.

Given ransomware’s impact on key critical infrastructure services, the United States will employ all
elements of national power to counter the threat along four lines of effort: (1) leveraging
international cooperation to disrupt the ransomware ecosystem and isolate those countries that
provide safe havens for criminals; (2) investigating ransomware crimes and using law enforcement
and other authorities to disrupt ransomware infrastructure and actors; (3) bolstering critical
infrastructure resilience to withstand ransomware attacks; and (4) addressing the abuse of virtual
currency to launder ransom payments.

As ransomware is a borderless challenge requiring international cooperation, the White House has
convened the Counter-Ransomware Initiative (CRI) with participation from more than thirty
countries. The CRI has conducted global exercises to build resilience and, as of January 2023,
launched an international counter ransomware task force, led by Australia, to share information
regarding the actors and infrastructure conducting ransomware attacks that will support and further
accelerate CRI member countries’ existing, often coordinated disruption efforts. The CRI will also
drive synchronization of policy and diplomatic efforts across its members.

The Administration is committed to mounting disruption campaigns and other efforts that are so
sustained, coordinated, and targeted that they render ransomware no longer profitable. The Joint
Ransomware Task Force (JRTF), co-chaired by CISA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),
will coordinate, deconflict, and synchronize existing interagency efforts to disrupt ransomware
operations and provide support to private sector and SLTT efforts to increase their protections
against ransomware.

Our approach will also include targeting the illicit cryptocurrency exchanges on which ransomware
operators rely and improving international implementation of standards for combatting virtual asset
illicit finance. The United States subjects financial institutions offering covered services in


17                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

cryptocurrencies to Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism
(AML/CFT) controls, and the Department of the Treasury, the Secret Service, DOJ, the FBI, and
private sector partners are collaborating to trace and interdict ransomware payments. The CRI has
gained the commitment of members to implement international AML/CFT standards, including
know-your-customer (KYC) rules, to make it harder for ransomware actors to launder
cryptocurrency proceeds from attacks. Over the long term, the United States will support
implementation of international AML/CFT standards globally to mitigate the use of
cryptocurrencies for illicit activities that undermine our national interest as part of our efforts to
implement EO 14067, “Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets.”

Ultimately, the most effective way to undermine the motivation of these criminal groups is to reduce
the potential for profit. For this reason, the Administration strongly discourages the payment of
ransoms. At the same time, victims of ransomware – whether or not they choose to pay a ransom -
should report the incident to law enforcement and other appropriate agencies. These reports
enhance the Federal Government’s ability to provide victim support, to prevent further use of
cryptocurrencies to evade AML/CFT controls, and to reduce the likelihood that future ransomware
attacks will be successful.




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                               18
PILLAR THREE | SHAPE MARKET
FORCES TO DRIVE SECURITY AND
RESILIENCE
To build the secure and resilient future we want, we must shape market forces to place responsibility
on those within our digital ecosystem that are best positioned to reduce risk. We will shift the
consequences of poor cybersecurity away from the most vulnerable, making our digital ecosystem
more worthy of trust. In this effort, we will not replace or diminish the role of the market, but
channel market forces productively toward keeping our country resilient and secure. Our goal is a
modern digital economy that promotes practices that enhance the security and resilience of our
digital ecosystem while preserving innovation and competition.

Continued disruptions of critical infrastructure and thefts of personal data make clear that market
forces alone have not been enough to drive broad adoption of best practices in cybersecurity and
resilience. In too many cases, organizations that choose not to invest in cybersecurity negatively and
unfairly impact those that do, often disproportionately impacting small businesses and our most
vulnerable communities. While market forces remain the first, best route to agile and effective
innovation, they have not adequately mobilized industry to prioritize our core economic and
national security interests.

To address these challenges, the Administration will shape the long-term security and resilience of
the digital ecosystem, against both today’s threats and tomorrow’s challenges. We must hold the
stewards of our data accountable for the protection of personal data; drive the development of more
secure connected devices; and reshape laws that govern liability for data losses and harm caused by
cybersecurity errors, software vulnerabilities, and other risks created by software and digital
technologies. We will use Federal purchasing power and grant-making to incentivize security. And
we will explore how the government can stabilize insurance markets against catastrophic risk to
drive better cybersecurity practices and to provide market certainty when catastrophic events do
occur.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.1: H OLD THE S TEWARDS OF
O UR D ATA A CCOUNTABLE

Securing personal data is a foundational aspect to protecting consumer privacy in a digital future.
Data-driven technologies have transformed our economy and offer convenience for consumers.
But the dramatic proliferation of personal information expands the threat environment and
increases the impact of data breaches on consumers. When organizations that have data on
individuals fail to act as responsible stewards for this data, they externalize the costs onto everyday
Americans. Often, the greatest harm falls upon the vulnerable populations for whom risks to their
personal data can produce disproportionate harms.


19                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

The Administration supports legislative efforts to impose robust, clear limits on the ability to collect,
use, transfer, and maintain personal data and provide strong protections for sensitive data like
geolocation and health information. This legislation should also set national requirements to secure
personal data consistent with standards and guidelines developed by NIST. By providing privacy
requirements that evolve with threats, the United States can pave the way for a more secure future.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.2: D RIVE THE D EVELOPMENT OF
S ECURE I O T D EVICES

Internet of Things (IoT) devices, including both consumer goods like fitness trackers and baby
monitors, as well as industrial control systems and sensors, introduce new sources of connectivity in
our homes and businesses. However, many of the IoT devices deployed today are not sufficiently
protected against cybersecurity threats. Too often they have been deployed with inadequate default
settings, can be difficult or impossible to patch or upgrade, or come equipped with advanced—and
sometimes unnecessary—capabilities that enable malicious cyber activities on critical physical and
digital systems. Recent IoT vulnerabilities have shown just how easily bad actors can exploit these
devices to construct botnets and conduct surveillance.

The Administration will continue to improve IoT cybersecurity through Federal research and
development (R&D), procurement, and risk management efforts, as directed in the IoT
Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020. In addition, the Administration will continue to advance
the development of IoT security labeling programs, as directed under EO 14028, “Improving the
Nation’s Cybersecurity.” Through the expansion of IoT security labels, consumers will be able to
compare the cybersecurity protections offered by different IoT products, thus creating a market
incentive for greater security across the entire IoT ecosystem.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.3: S HIFT L IABILITY FOR
I NSECURE S OFTWARE P RODUCTS AND S ERVICES

Markets impose inadequate costs on—and often reward—those entities that introduce vulnerable
products or services into our digital ecosystem. Too many vendors ignore best practices for secure
development, ship products with insecure default configurations or known vulnerabilities, and
integrate third-party software of unvetted or unknown provenance. Software makers are able to
leverage their market position to fully disclaim liability by contract, further reducing their incentive
to follow secure-by-design principles or perform pre-release testing. Poor software security greatly
increases systemic risk across the digital ecosystem and leave American citizens bearing the ultimate
cost.

We must begin to shift liability onto those entities that fail to take reasonable precautions to secure
their software while recognizing that even the most advanced software security programs cannot


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                20
                                    

prevent all vulnerabilities. Companies that make software must have the freedom to innovate, but
they must also be held liable when they fail to live up to the duty of care they owe consumers,
businesses, or critical infrastructure providers. Responsibility must be placed on the stakeholders
most capable of taking action to prevent bad outcomes, not on the end-users that often bear the
consequences of insecure software nor on the open-source developer of a component that is
integrated into a commercial product. Doing so will drive the market to produce safer products and
services while preserving innovation and the ability of startups and other small- and medium-sized
businesses to compete against market leaders.

The Administration will work with Congress and the private sector to develop legislation
establishing liability for software products and services. Any such legislation should prevent
manufacturers and software publishers with market power from fully disclaiming liability by
contract, and establish higher standards of care for software in specific high-risk scenarios. To begin
to shape standards of care for secure software development, the Administration will drive the
development of an adaptable safe harbor framework to shield from liability companies that securely
develop and maintain their software products and services. This safe harbor will draw from current
best practices for secure software development, such as the NIST Secure Software Development
Framework. It also must evolve over time, incorporating new tools for secure software
development, software transparency, and vulnerability discovery.

To further incentivize the adoption of secure software development practices, the Administration
will encourage coordinated vulnerability disclosure across all technology types and sectors; promote
the further development of SBOMs; and develop a process for identifying and mitigating the risk
presented by unsupported software that is widely used or supports critical infrastructure. In
partnership with the private sector and the open-source software community, the Federal
Government will also continue to invest in the development of secure software, including memory-
safe languages and software development techniques, frameworks, and testing tools.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.4: U SE F EDERAL G RANTS AND
O THER I NCENTIVES TO B UILD IN S ECURITY

Federal grant programs offer strategic opportunities to make investments in critical infrastructure
that are designed, developed, fielded, and maintained with cybersecurity and all-hazards resilience in
mind. Through programs funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act,
and the CHIPS and Science Act, the United States is making once-in-a-generation investments in
our infrastructure and the digital ecosystem that supports it. This Administration is committed to
making investments in a manner that increases our collective systemic resilience.

The Federal Government will collaborate with SLTT entities, the private sector, and other partners
to balance cybersecurity requirements for applicants with technical assistance and other forms of
support. Together, we can drive investment in critical products and services that are secure- and
resilient-by-design, and sustain and incentivize security and resilience throughout the lifecycle of



21                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                    

critical infrastructure. The Federal Government will also prioritize funding for cybersecurity
research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) programs aimed at strengthening critical
infrastructure cybersecurity and resilience. And, the Administration will work with Congress to
develop other incentive mechanisms to drive better cybersecurity practices at scale.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.5: L EVERAGE F EDERAL
P ROCUREMENT TO I MPROVE A CCOUNTABILITY

Contracting requirements for vendors that sell to the Federal Government have been an effective
tool for improving cybersecurity. EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity,” expands
upon this approach, ensuring that contract requirements for cybersecurity are strengthened and
standardized across Federal agencies. Continuing to pilot new concepts for setting, enforcing, and
testing cybersecurity requirements through procurement can lead to novel and scalable approaches.

When companies make contractual commitments to follow cybersecurity best practices to the
Federal Government, they must live up to them. The Civil Cyber-Fraud Initiative (CCFI) uses DOJ
authorities under the False Claims Act to pursue civil actions against government grantees and
contractors who fail to meet cybersecurity obligations. The CCFI will hold accountable entities or
individuals that put U.S. information or systems at risk by knowingly providing deficient
cybersecurity products or services, knowingly misrepresenting their cybersecurity practices or
protocols, or knowingly violating obligations to monitor and report cyber incidents and breaches.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 3.6: E XPLORE A F EDERAL C YBER
I NSURANCE B ACKSTOP

When catastrophic incidents occur, it is a government responsibility to stabilize the economy and
provide certainty in uncertain times. In the event of a catastrophic cyber incident, the Federal
Government could be called upon to stabilize the economy and aid recovery. Structuring that
response before a catastrophic event occurs—rather than rushing to develop an aid package after
the fact—could provide certainty to markets and make the nation more resilient. The
Administration will assess the need for and possible structures of a Federal insurance response to
catastrophic cyber events that would support the existing cyber insurance market. In developing this
assessment, the Administration will seek input from, and consult with, Congress, state regulators,
and industry stakeholders.




                      NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                             22
PILLAR FOUR | INVEST IN A
RESILIENT FUTURE
A resilient and flourishing digital future tomorrow begins with investments made today. We can
build a more secure, resilient, privacy-preserving, and equitable digital ecosystem through strategic
investments and coordinated, collaborative action. In doing so, the United States will maintain its
leading role as the world’s foremost innovator in secure and resilient next-generation technologies
and infrastructure.

Foundational elements of our digital ecosystem, like the Internet, are products of sustained and
mutually-supporting investments by both public and private sector entities. However, public and
private investments in cybersecurity have long trailed the threats and challenges we face. As we
build a new generation of digital infrastructure, from next-generation telecommunications and IoT
to distributed energy resources, and prepare for revolutionary changes in our technology landscape
brought by artificial intelligence and quantum computing, the need to address this investment gap
has grown more urgent.

The Federal Government must leverage strategic public investments in innovation, R&D, and
education to drive outcomes that are economically sustainable and serve the national interest. We
will leverage the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Regional Innovation Engines program, long-
standing Secure and Trustworthy Cyberspace program; new grant programs and funding
opportunities established in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction Act, and CHIPS
and Science Act; Manufacturing Institutes; and other elements of the Federal research and
development enterprise.

These investments will assure continued U.S. leadership in technology and innovation as part of a
modern industrial and innovation strategy. Decades of adversaries and malicious actors
weaponizing our technology and innovation against us—to steal our intellectual property, interfere
in or influence our electoral process, and undercut our national defenses—has demonstrated that
leadership in innovation without security is not enough. We will complement our efforts to out-
innovate other countries with focused, coordinated action to optimize critical and emerging
technologies for cybersecurity as they are developed and deployed. We will ensure that resilience is
not a discretionary element of new technical capabilities but a commercially viable element of the
innovation and deployment process.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.1: S ECURE THE T ECHNICAL
F OUNDATION OF THE I NTERNET

The Internet is critical to our future but retains the fundamental structure of its past. Many of the
technical foundations of the digital ecosystem are inherently vulnerable. Every time we build
something new on top of this foundation, we add new vulnerabilities and increase our collective risk


23                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

exposure. We must take steps to mitigate the most urgent of these pervasive concerns such as
Border Gateway Protocol vulnerabilities, unencrypted Domain Name System requests, and the slow
adoption of IPv6. Such a “clean-up” effort to reduce systemic risk requires identification of the
most pressing of these security challenges, further development of effective security measures, and
close collaboration between public and private sectors to reduce our risk exposure without
disrupting the platforms and services built atop this infrastructure. The Federal Government will
lead by ensuring that its networks have implemented these and other security measures while
partnering with stakeholders to develop and drive adoption of solutions that will improve the
security of the Internet ecosystem and support research to understand and address reasons for slow
adoption.

Preserving and extending the open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet requires
sustained engagement in standards development processes to instill our values and ensure that
technical standards produce technologies that are more secure and resilient. As autocratic regimes
seek to change the Internet and its multistakeholder foundation to enable government control,
censorship, and surveillance, the United States and its foreign and private sector partners will
implement a multi-pronged strategy to preserve technical excellence, protect our security, drive
economic competitiveness, promote digital trade, and ensure that the “rules of the road” for
technology standards favor principles of transparency, openness, consensus, relevance, and
coherence. By supporting non-governmental Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs), the
United States will partner with industry leaders, international allies, academic institutions,
professional societies, consumer groups, and nonprofits, to secure emerging technologies, enable
interoperability, foster global market competition, and protect our national security and economic
advantage.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.2: R EINVIGORATE F EDERAL
R ESEARCH AND D EVELOPMENT FOR C YBERSECURITY

Through Federal efforts to prioritize research and development in defensible and resilient
architectures and reduce vulnerabilities in underlying technologies, we can ensure that the
technologies of tomorrow are more secure than those of today.

As part of the update to the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Strategic Plan, the
Federal Government will identify, prioritize, and catalyze the research, development, and
demonstration (RD&D) community to proactively prevent and mitigate cybersecurity risks in
existing and next generation technologies. Departments and agencies will direct RD&D projects to
advance cybersecurity and resilience in areas such as artificial intelligence, operational technologies
and industrial control systems, cloud infrastructure, telecommunications, encryption, system
transparency, and data analytics used in critical infrastructure. These efforts will be supported by the
Federal RD&D enterprise, including the NSF, DOE National Laboratories, and other Federally
funded research and development centers (FFRDCs), and through partnerships with academia,
manufacturers, technology companies, and owners and operators.



                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                               24
                                    

These RD&D investments will focus on securing three families of technologies that will prove
decisive for U.S. leadership in the coming decade: computing-related technologies, including
microelectronics, quantum information systems, and artificial intelligence; biotechnologies and
biomanufacturing; and clean energy technologies. This effort will facilitate the proactive
identification of potential vulnerabilities, as well as the research to mitigate them. It will also
support a larger modern industrial and innovation strategy to promote coordinated and strategic
innovation and create markets for trustworthy products and services by comprehensively leveraging
Federal investment vehicles, Federal purchasing power, and Federal regulations.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.3: P REPARE FOR O UR
P OST -Q UANTUM F UTURE

Strong encryption is foundational to cybersecurity and global commerce. It is the primary way we
protect our data online, validate end users, authenticate signatures, and certify the accuracy of
information. But quantum computing has the potential to break some of the most ubiquitous
encryption standards deployed today. We must prioritize and accelerate investments in widespread
replacement of hardware, software, and services that can be easily compromised by quantum
computers so that information is protected against future attacks.

To balance the promotion and advancement of quantum computing against threats posed to digital
systems, NSM 10, “Promoting United States Leadership in Quantum Computing While Mitigating
Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic Systems,” establishes a process for the timely transition of the
country’s cryptographic systems to interoperable quantum-resistant cryptography. The Federal
Government will prioritize the transition of vulnerable public networks and systems to quantum-
resistant cryptography-based environments and develop complementary mitigation strategies to
provide cryptographic agility in the face of unknown future risks. The private sector should follow
the government’s model in preparing its own networks and systems for our post-quantum future.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.4: S ECURE O UR C LEAN E NERGY
F UTURE

Our accelerating national transition to a clean energy future is bringing online a new generation of
interconnected hardware and software systems that have the potential to strengthen the resiliency,
safety, and efficiency of the U.S. electric grid. These technologies, including distributed energy
resources, “smart” energy generation and storage devices, advanced cloud-based grid management
platforms, and transmission and distribution networks designed for high-capacity controllable loads
are far more sophisticated, automated, and digitally interconnected than prior generations of grid
systems.




25                    NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

As the United States makes a generational investment in new energy infrastructure, the
Administration will seize this strategic opportunity to build in cybersecurity proactively through
implementation of the Congressionally-directed National Cyber-Informed Engineering Strategy,
rather than developing a patchwork of security controls after these connected devices are widely
deployed. The Administration is coordinating the work of stakeholders across the Federal
Government, industry, and SLTT to deploy a secure, interoperable network of electric vehicle
chargers, zero-emission fueling infrastructure, and zero-emission transit and school buses. DOE,
through efforts such as the Clean Energy Cybersecurity Accelerator (CECA) and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law-directed Energy Cyber Sense program, and the National Labs are leading the
government’s effort to secure the clean energy grid of the future and generating security best
practices that extend to other critical infrastructure sectors. DOE will also continue to promote
cybersecurity for electric distribution and distributed energy resources in partnership with industry,
States, Federal regulators, Congress, and other agencies.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.5: S UPPORT D EVELOPMENT OF A
D IGITAL I DENTITY E COSYSTEM

Enhanced digital identity solutions and infrastructure can enable a more innovative, equitable, safe
and efficient digital economy. These solutions can support easier and more secure access to
government benefits and services, trusted communication and social networks, and new possibilities
for digital contracts and payment systems.

Today, the lack of secure, privacy-preserving, consent-based digital identity solutions allows fraud to
flourish, perpetuates exclusion and inequity, and adds inefficiency to our financial activities and daily
life. Identity theft is on the rise, with data breaches impacting nearly 300 million victims in 2021 and
malicious actors fraudulently obtaining billions of dollars in COVID-19 pandemic relief funds
intended for small businesses and individuals in need. This malicious activity affects us all, creating
significant losses for businesses and producing harmful impacts on public benefit programs and
those Americans who use them. Operating independently, neither the private nor public sectors
have been able to solve this problem.

The Federal Government will encourage and enable investments in strong, verifiable digital identity
solutions that promote security, accessibility and interoperability, financial and social inclusion,
consumer privacy, and economic growth. Building on the NIST-led digital identity research
program authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act, these efforts will include strengthening the
security of digital credentials; providing attribute and credential validation services; conducting
foundational research; updating standards, guidelines, and governance processes to support
consistent use and interoperability; and develop digital identity platforms that promote transparency
and measurement. Acknowledging that States are piloting mobile drivers’ licenses, we note and
encourage a focus on privacy, security, civil liberties, equity, accessibility, and interoperability.




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                26
                                     

In developing these capabilities, our digital identity policies and technologies will protect and
enhance individual privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties; guard against unintended consequences,
bias, and potential abuse; enable vendor choice and voluntary use by individuals; increase security
and interoperability; promote inclusivity and accessibility; and improve transparency and
accountability in the use of technology and individuals’ data.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 4.6: D EVELOP A N ATIONAL
S TRATEGY TO S TRENGTHEN O UR C YBER W ORKFORCE

Today, there are hundreds of thousands of unfilled vacancies in cybersecurity positions nationwide,
and this gap is growing. Both private sector and public sector employers face challenges in
recruiting, hiring, and retaining professionals to fill these vacancies, which negatively impacts our
collective cybersecurity. To address this challenge, ONCD will lead the development and oversee
implementation of a National Cyber Workforce and Education Strategy.

This strategy will take a comprehensive and coordinated approach to expanding the national cyber
workforce, improving its diversity, and increasing access to cyber educational and training pathways.
It will address the need for cybersecurity expertise across all sectors of the economy, with a special
focus on critical infrastructure, and will enable the American workforce to continue to innovate in
secure and resilient next-generation technologies. The strategy will strengthen and diversify the
Federal cyber workforce, addressing the unique challenges the public sector faces in recruiting,
retaining, and developing the talent and capacity needed to protect Federal data and IT
infrastructure. And, the strategy will recognize that cyber workforce challenges are not unique to the
United States, expanding upon and drawing inspiration from efforts underway in other countries.

The strategy will build on existing efforts to develop our national cybersecurity workforce including
the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), the CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service
program, the National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity program, the Cybersecurity
Education Training and Assistance Program, and the registered apprenticeships program. The
strategy will also leverage ongoing workforce development programs at NSF and other science
agencies to augment Federal Government programs.

It will tackle head on the lack of diversity in the cyber workforce. Employers are hiring from too
small a pool of talent and from professional networks that and are not able to draw from the full
diversity of the country. Women, people of color, first-generation professionals and immigrants,
individuals with disabilities, and LGBTQI+ individuals are among the communities which are
underrepresented in the field. Addressing systemic inequities and overcoming barriers that inhibit
diversity in the cyber workforce is both a moral necessity and a strategic imperative.

To recruit and train the next generation of cybersecurity professionals to secure our digital
ecosystem will require Federal leadership and enduring partnership between public and private
sectors. Building and maintaining a strong cyber workforce cannot be achieved unless a
cybersecurity career is within reach for any capable American who wishes to pursue it and every


27                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                     

organization with an unfilled position plays a part in training the next generation of cybersecurity
talent.




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                 28
PILLAR FIVE | FORGE
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS TO
PURSUE SHARED GOALS
The United States seeks a world where responsible state behavior in cyberspace is expected and
rewarded and where irresponsible behavior is isolating and costly. To achieve this goal, we will
continue to engage with countries working in opposition to our larger agenda on common problems
while we build a broad coalition of nations working to maintain an open, free, global, interoperable,
reliable, and secure Internet.

For decades, we have worked through international institutions to define and advance responsible
state behavior in cyberspace. We have used multilateral processes such as the United Nations (UN)
Group of Governmental Experts and Open-Ended Working Group to develop a framework that
includes a set of peacetime norms and confidence-building measures, which all UN member states
have affirmed in the UN General Assembly. We have supported the expansion of the Budapest
Convention on Cybercrime and other global efforts to make cyberspace more secure. We will
continue these efforts while recognizing the need to work with partners to thwart the dark vision for
the future of the Internet that the PRC and other autocratic governments promote. We will do so
by demonstrating to economies and societies the value of openness and jointly imposing
consequences for behavior that runs counter to agreed norms of state behavior.

To counter common threats, preserve and reinforce global Internet freedom, protect against
transnational digital repression, and build toward a shared digital ecosystem that is more inherently
resilient and defensible, the United States will work to scale the emerging model of collaboration by
national cybersecurity stakeholders to cooperate with the international community. We will expand
coalitions, collaboratively disrupt transnational criminals and other malicious cyber actors, build the
capacity of our international allies and partners, reinforce the applicability of existing international
law to state behavior in cyberspace, uphold globally accepted and voluntary norms of responsible
state behavior in peacetime, and punish those that engage in disruptive, destructive, or destabilizing
malicious cyber activity.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 5.1: B UILD C OALITIONS TO
C OUNTER T HREATS TO O UR D IGITAL E COSYSTEM

In April 2022, the United States and 60 countries launched the Declaration for the Future of the
Internet (DFI), bringing together a broad, diverse coalition of partners—the largest of its kind—
around a common, democratic vision for an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure
digital future. Through the DFI, the Freedom Online Coalition, and other partnerships and
mechanisms, the United States is rallying like-minded countries, the international business
community, and other stakeholders to advance our vision for the future of the Internet that


29                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                    

promotes secure and trusted data flows, respects privacy, promotes human rights, and enables
progress on broader challenges.

Through mechanisms like the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (“the Quad”) between the United
States, India, Japan, and Australia, the United States and its international allies and partners are
advancing these shared goals for cyberspace. These include improving information sharing between
computer emergency response teams and the development of a digital ecosystem based on shared
values. The Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) and the Americas Partnership
for Economic Prosperity (APEP) create opportunities for the United States and regional
governments to collaborate in setting rules of the road for the digital economy, including facilitating
the development of technical standards, mechanisms to enable cross-border data flows that protect
privacy while avoiding strict data localization requirements, and actions to foster supply chain
security and resilience. Through the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC), we are
coordinating across the Atlantic to combat shared threats and demonstrate how market approaches
to digital trade, technology, and innovation can improve the lives of our citizens and be a force for
greater prosperity. The United States is also working closely with Australia and the United Kingdom
through the trilateral security and technology pact (“AUKUS”) to secure critical technologies,
improve cyber coordination, and share advanced capabilities.

Through these and other partnerships, the United States and international counterparts can advance
common cybersecurity interests by sharing cyber threat information, exchanging model
cybersecurity practices, comparing sector-specific expertise, driving secure-by-design principles, and
coordinating policy and incident response activities. Furthermore, multistakeholder partnerships
and coalitions that also include private sector and civil society organizations, such as the
Christchurch Call to Action to Eliminate Terrorist and Violent Extremist Content Online, the
Freedom Online Coalition, and the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online
Harassment and Abuse, are crucial to tackling systemic issues. We will leverage these partnerships
to enable effective operational collaboration to defend our shared digital ecosystem. We will also
support and help build, as needed, new and innovative partnerships—as in the case of the
international Counter-Ransomware Initiative—that bring together unique collections of stakeholders
to address new and emerging cybersecurity challenges.

Because most malicious cyber activity targeting the United States is carried out by actors based in
foreign countries or using foreign computing infrastructure, we must strengthen the mechanisms we
have to collaborate with our allies and partners so that no adversary can evade the rule of law. The
United States will work with its allies and partners to develop new collaborative law enforcement
mechanisms for the digital age. For example, the European Cybercrime Centre has played a vital
role in modernizing legal frameworks, training law enforcement, improving attribution, collaborating
with private sector partners, and responding to malicious cyber activities in Europe. To extend this
model, we will support efforts to build effective hubs with partners in other regions.




                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                              30
                                     

S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 5.2: S TRENGTHEN I NTERNATIONAL
P ARTNER C APACITY

As we build a coalition to advance shared cybersecurity priorities and promote a common vision for
the digital ecosystem, the United States will strengthen the capacity of like-minded states across the
globe to support these goals. We must enable our allies and partners to secure critical infrastructure
networks, build effective incident detection and response capabilities, share cyber threat information,
pursue diplomatic collaboration, build law enforcement capacity and effectiveness through
operational collaboration, and support our shared interests in cyberspace by adhering to
international law and reinforcing norms of responsible state behavior.

To accomplish this goal, the United States will marshal expertise across agencies, the public and
private sectors, and among advanced regional partners to pursue coordinated and effective
international cyber capacity-building and operational collaboration efforts. Within the law
enforcement community, DOJ will continue to build a more robust cybercrime cooperation
paradigm through bilateral and multilateral engagement and agreements, formal and informal
cooperation, and providing international and regional leadership to strengthen cybercrime laws,
policies, and operations. DoD will continue to strengthen its military-to-military relationships to
leverage allies’ and partners’ unique skills and perspectives while building their capacity to contribute
to our collective cybersecurity posture. The Department of State will continue to coordinate whole-
of-government efforts to ensure Federal capacity building priorities are strategically aligned and
further U.S., allied, and partner interests.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 5.3: E XPAND U.S. A BILITY TO
A SSIST A LLIES AND P ARTNERS

As recent cyberattacks against Costa Rica, Albania, and Montenegro have demonstrated, allies and
partners who fall victim to a significant cyberattack may seek support from the United States and
allied and partner nations to investigate, responding to, and recover from such incidents. Providing
this support will not only assist with partner recovery and response, but will also advance U.S.
foreign policy and cybersecurity goals. Close cooperation with an affected ally or partner
demonstrates solidarity in the face of adversary activity and can accelerate efforts to expose counter-
normative state behavior and impose consequences.

The Administration will establish policies for determining when it is in the national interest to
provide such support, develop mechanisms for identifying and deploying department and agency
resources in such efforts, and, where needed, rapidly seek to remove existing financial and
procedural barriers to provide such operational support. As one example, the United States is
leading a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) effort to build a virtual cyber incident




31                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
                                      

support capability that enables Allies to more effectively and efficiently support each other in
response to significant malicious cyber activities.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 5.4: B UILD C OALITIONS TO
R EINFORCE G LOBAL N ORMS OF R ESPONSIBLE S TATE
B EHAVIOR

Every member of the United Nations has made a political commitment to endorse peacetime norms
of responsible state behavior in cyberspace that includes refraining from cyber operations that would
intentionally damage critical infrastructure contrary to their obligations under international law.
While our adversaries know that such commitments are not self-enforcing, the growing influence of
this framework has led states to call out those who act contrary to it. Increasingly, a community of
nations has collaborated to produce coordinated statements of attribution that carry the
simultaneous diplomatic condemnation of many governments and strengthening the coalition
committed to a stable cyberspace.

The United States, as a core part of its renewed, active diplomacy, will hold irresponsible states
accountable when they fail to uphold their commitments. To effectively constrain our adversaries
and counter malicious activities below the threshold of armed conflict, we will work with our allies
and partners to pair statements of condemnation with the imposition of meaningful consequences.
These efforts will require collaborative use of all tools of statecraft, including diplomatic isolation,
economic costs, counter-cyber and law enforcement operations, or legal sanctions, among others.


S TRATEGIC O BJECTIVE 5.5: S ECURE G LOBAL S UPPLY
C HAINS FOR I NFORMATION , C OMMUNICATIONS , AND
O PERATIONAL T ECHNOLOGY P RODUCTS AND S ERVICES

Complex and globally interconnected supply chains produce the information, communications, and
operational technology products and services that power the U.S. economy. From raw materials and
basic components to finished products and services—both virtual and physical—we depend upon a
growing network of foreign suppliers. This dependency on critical foreign products and services
from untrusted suppliers introduces multiple sources of systemic risk to our digital ecosystem.
Mitigating this risk will require long-term, strategic collaboration between public and private sectors
at home and abroad to rebalance global supply chains and make them more transparent, secure,
resilient, and trustworthy.

Critical inputs, components, and systems must increasingly be developed at home or in close
coordination with allies and partners who share our vision of an open, free, global, interoperable,
reliable, and secure Internet. Building on the National Strategy to Secure 5G, we are working with
our partners to develop secure, reliable, and trustworthy supply chains for 5G and next-generation


                       NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                                 32
                                     

wireless networks including through Open Radio Access Networks (Open RAN) and collaborative
initiatives to diversify suppliers. Such efforts include DoD testing of Open RAN implementations
across multiple bases, with multi-million dollar smart warehouse and logistics projects, and National
Telecommunications and Information Administration’s (NTIA) work to catalyze the development
and adoption of open, interoperable, and standards-based networks through the Public Wireless
Supply Chain Innovation Fund. Extending this model to other critical technologies will require
long-term, strategic collaboration between public and private sectors at home and abroad to
rebalance global supply chains and make them more secure, resilient, and trustworthy. The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law mandates “Build America, Buy America” for Federally-funded
projects, including for digital infrastructure. Through EO 14017, “America’s Supply Chains,” the
CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, the Federal Government has introduced
new industrial and innovation strategy tools to help restore production of critical goods to the
United States and its close partners while securing our information technology and advanced
manufacturing supply chains.

The United States will work with our allies and partners, including through regional partnerships like
IPEF, the Quad Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group, and the TTC, to identify and
implement best practices in cross-border supply chain risk management and work to shift supply
chains to flow through partner countries and trusted vendors. This effort will prioritize
opportunities to provide higher levels of assurance that digital technologies will function as expected
and to attract countries to support the shared vision of an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable,
and secure Internet. The Department of State will further accelerate these efforts through the new
International Technology Security and Innovation Fund to support the creation of secure and
diverse supply chains for semiconductors and telecommunications. Finally, through implementation
of EO 13873, “Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply
Chain,” as well as EO 14034 “Protecting Americans’ Sensitive Data From Foreign Adversaries,” we
will work to prevent unacceptable and undue risks to our national security from information and
communications technology and services subject to control or influence from adversarial
governments.




33                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
IMPLEMENTATION
Realizing the strategic objectives outlined in this strategy will require a strong focus on
implementation. Under the oversight of NSC staff and in coordination with OMB, ONCD will
coordinate implementation of this strategy. ONCD will work with interagency partners to develop
and publish an implementation plan to set out the Federal lines of effort necessary to implement this
strategy. Where implementation of this strategy requires review of existing policy or the
development of new policy, NSC staff will lead this effort through the process described in NSM-2,
“Renewing the National Security Council System.”

A SSESSI NG E FFECTIVENESS
In implementing this strategy, the Federal Government will take a data-driven approach. We will
measure investments made, our progress toward implementation, and ultimate outcomes and
effectiveness of these efforts. ONCD, in coordination with NSC staff, OMB, and departments and
agencies, will assess the effectiveness of this strategy and report annually to the President, the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Congress on the effectiveness of this
strategy, associated policy, and follow-on actions in achieving its goals.

I NCORPO RATING L ESSONS L EARNED
The Federal Government will prioritize capturing lessons learned from cyber incidents and apply
those lessons in the implementation of this strategy. The CSRB completed its first review on the
Log4j vulnerability in summer 2022, during which the CSRB compiled an authoritative account of
what happened, from the discovery of the vulnerability to the progression of the largest-scale cyber
incident response in history. The CSRB also provided industry, Federal agencies, and the software
development community with clear, actionable recommendations based on what the review
discovered, so that the community can be better protected going forward.

When the CSRB concludes its reviews, the Federal Government will address its recommendations
by improving its own operations through executive action where possible, and will work with
Congress to enhance authorities, as necessary. Federal agencies also will promote and amplify CSRB
recommendations that are directed to network defenders in the private sector. Beyond the CSRB, a
broader national effort to learn from cyber incidents is required. Regulators are encouraged to build
incident review processes into their regulatory frameworks. CISA and law enforcement agencies are
also encouraged to build processes to routinely extract lessons learned from their investigations and
incident response activities. Private companies are likewise encouraged to undertake these reviews
and share findings from their efforts to inform implementation of this strategy.

M AKING      THE   I NV ESTMENT
Maintaining an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet and building a more
defensible and resilient digital ecosystem will require generational investments by the Federal
Government, allies and partners, and by the private sector. Many Federal actions contained in this
strategy are intended to increase private sector investment in security, resilience, improved
collaboration, and research and development. For Federal agencies to support their private sector


                      NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY                                              34
                                     

partners and increase their capacity to carry out essential Federal missions, targeted investment will
be required. To guide this investment, ONCD and OMB will jointly issue annual guidance on
cybersecurity budget priorities to departments and agencies to further the Administration’s strategic
approach. ONCD will work with OMB to ensure alignment of department and agency budget
proposals to achieve the goals set out in this strategy. The Administration will work with Congress
to fund cybersecurity activities to keep pace with the speed of change inherent within the cyber
ecosystem.




35                     NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
